The Project Gutenberg eBook, "Hear ye the Rod, and who hath appointed it",
by James Galloway Cowan


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: "Hear ye the Rod, and who hath appointed it"
       A Sermon for the Fast Day, October 7, 1857


Author: James Galloway Cowan



Release Date: March 7, 2021  [eBook #64742]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "HEAR YE THE ROD, AND WHO HATH
APPOINTED IT"***


Transcribed from the 1857 William Skeffington edition by David Price.





                      “HEAR YE THE ROD, AND WHO HATH
                              APPOINTED IT.”


                                * * * * *

                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                                * * * * *

                                 A SERMON

                                   FOR

                              The Fast Day,

                             OCTOBER 7, 1857,

                                * * * * *

                                  BY THE
                        REV. JAMES GALLOWAY COWAN,
                 MINISTER OF ARCHBISHOP TENISON’S CHAPEL.

                                * * * * *

                                 LONDON:
                  WILLIAM SKEFFINGTON, 163, PICCADILLY.
                                  1857.

                                * * * * *




_By the same Author_.


CHRISTIAN MARRIAGE INDISSOLUBLE.  A plain Sermon preached at Archbishop
Tenison’s Chapel, on the fifth Sunday after Trinity.  By James Galloway
Cowan, Minister of the Chapel.  4d.

                                * * * * *




A SERMON,
ETC.


                                MICAH, VI, 9.

    “_Hear ye the rod_, _and Who hath appointed it_.”

We believe that there is a GOD: that this GOD is the Maker and Preserver
of all things visible and invisible; that He does now and ever shall rule
over all as He has done from the beginning; that He calls the stars by
name and numbers the very hairs of our heads; so that nothing, great or
small, happens in heaven or earth but by His will or permission.  We
believe that His rule is exercised, not simply in the maintenance of
fixed laws, always working the same ends by the same means, but also, in
active special interferences in particular cases.  We believe GOD’S rule
to be a strictly moral one, that is to say, that He ever recognises and
rewards what is right, and condemns and punishes what is wrong.  His
times of interference, it is true, are not always such as we should fix
on.  He often allows righteousness to be long without its rewards, and
wickedness without its punishment.  In the case of the individual, reward
may be deferred till he enters the future state which awaits him; and so
may punishment; or, it may be immediately consequent upon the act which
has earned it: while not unfrequently the moral law may seem even to be
for a time inverted by the prosperity of the wicked or the adversity of
the godly—GOD’S patience long bears with the wilful, while His love
quickly chastens the weak but willing.  In the case of nations, the same
discipline seems to be observed; only, as they have but a temporal
existence, they are always ultimately dealt with _here_ according to
their deserts.  For a time, indeed, what GOD is pleased to account a
righteous nation may for their shortcomings and offences be abased and
troubled; but ere long it will be exalted: while a sinful people, though
they wax strong and are counted the excellent, and mighty, and honourable
of the earth, shall soon know terribly that sin is a reproach and an
everlasting destruction.

In administering temporal reward and punishment, GOD does not call into
being new elements, out of which to construct His instruments; but He
avails Himself of what already exist, either directing, perhaps
diverting, natural agencies, or making the dispositions or doings of men,
the ministers of His providence.  It is thus that He orders rain to make
the earth fruitful or to flood it: wind to waft health or to bring
pestilence: lightning to ripen the fruit or to blast the tree.  It is
thus, too, that He rewards the well-doers, out of their good thoughts and
ways, and punishes sinners out of their lusts and evil pursuits, making
men’s own hearts and lives to be their friends or enemies.

These are the well-established principles of GOD’S moral
government—universal in their application, unfailing in their effects.
In applying them now to the case of nations, let us remember that each
nation has a purpose appointed by GOD to answer—a course to follow.  It
may or it may not answer that purpose and follow that course.  If it
does, it is blessed with prosperity; if it does not, calamity will fall
upon it; and, if one and another chastisement, one and another call to
repentance and amendment, prove fruitless, utter destruction is its
inevitable doom.  “Thus saith the LORD; If ye will not hearken to ME, to
walk in my law, which I have set before you, to hearken to the words of
My servants the prophets, whom I sent unto you, both rising up early, and
sending them, but ye have not hearkened; then will I make this house like
Shiloh” (which at that time lay desolate), “and will make this city a
curse to all the nations of the earth.” (Jer., xxvi, 4–6.)  The kingdom
of Judah was on a last trial when thus addressed by the prophet Jeremiah.
Calamity after calamity had fallen upon it, combining chastisement and
warning.  Prophets had been sent to interpret these calamities, to
reprove the people for their transgressions and to exhort them to
amendment, with the promise of consequent restoration to Divine favour;
but all was in vain: they would not see, they would not hear, they would
not return; and so within two years Jerusalem was “an heap of stones, and
her king and people were wailing captives beside the river of Babylon.”

A warning this, and a very solemn one, to all nations; but more
especially to ours, my brethren, because we seem to be chosen like the
Jews to be a peculiar people to the LORD—our privileges are higher, and
consequently our responsibilities greater, than those of other nations.
If sin is a reproach to _any_ people, we are sure it must be a crying
offence in _us_: for what nation is there that hath GOD so nigh unto them
as the LORD our GOD is to us in all things that we call upon Him for?
And if He has drawn us thus nigh to Him, does He not require us more than
others to draw nigh to Him?  If we are, as we boast of being, “the temple
of the LORD,” surely we shall be more displeasing to Him than
un-consecrated ground, if we become a den of thieves or a house of unholy
traffic.  He has exalted us to be the first of nations in religious,
political, and social privileges.  He has done great things for us.  He
therefore expects much of us.  If, then, we grow unmindful of Him, and
nationally dishonour His holy name, whereby we are called, either by
neglect or transgression, we may expect His rod of chastisement, His
visitation of judgment.  In some of the ways in which He afflicted His
people of old, He will afflict us, and with the same design; for a long
time, to correct us and restore us to obedience and so to favour; but
ultimately, if we refuse to be reformed, to make us feel the weight of
His wrath and to cause us to cease from among the nations of the earth.
I am not going to adduce proofs that GOD so deals with nations.  Every
reader of the Bible can find them for himself.  He has but to study in
Scripture light the history of kingdoms, to ascertain beyond a doubt that
righteousness ever exalts a nation, and that sin is ever the reproach,
and sin persisted in ever the ruin of any people; and that by GOD’S
irreversible appointment and by His superintending Providence.  Now this
knowledge we may use in two ways.  Anticipating the effect from the
cause, we may deter ourselves from national sin, by considering that its
commission will surely provoke a national judgment: or looking back from
the effect to its cause, we may find in national judgments a sure
indication that as a people we have displeased GOD, that there is
something in us which He would correct and punish.

We shall not be at a loss to ascertain what are national judgments, if we
bear in mind that in Scripture they are represented as identical with
national calamities.  Anything that affects the honour, the influence,
the lives, the resources of our people is a judgment, of mercy or
wrath—of mercy it will prove, if we heed it; of wrath if we heed it not.
When, then, a famine starves our people, or a pestilence cuts them off,
or an enemy assails them, or they are involved in an aggressive war, or
perplexed by civil commotions and intestine broils, we may be sure that
GOD’S judgment is upon the earth, that He is requiring us to learn
righteousness, or to eat the fruits of iniquity.  War in all its forms,
aggressive, defensive, or intestine, is assuredly a Divine judgment.  It
may be, often is, that the sword is put into a people’s hand for them to
use as the soldiers of GOD: but that sword is always two-edged, wounding
those who wield it as well as those on whom it falls.  To be thus
enlisted in the service of GOD should never be the source of
self-gratulation or be regarded as a proof of Divine favour.  It is a
calamity (that is, a Divine judgment), even when we maintain the
righteous cause of a weak ally, or defend ourselves from a wanton
aggressor, or put down our wickedly rebellious subjects.  Assyria’s hosts
in fighting GOD’S battles were made to punish themselves.  Israel had no
warfare to wage when GOD was well pleased with it, but only when it
required correction.  And we, my brethren, in our last two righteous
wars, had surely proofs enough in the loss of our best blood, the drain
upon our resources, the griefs, the anxieties, the perplexities, that to
be GOD’S agents of vengeance is no privilege to be coveted; that is a
scourge, a fearful scourge, which a GOD who never afflicts willingly—that
is, in mere caprice—would not have laid upon us, had we not needed
chastisement, had we not provoked Him to displeasure.

And what shall we say of that which is uppermost in all men’s minds and
foremost on all their tongues at this time—our warfare in India?  Is our
part therein a righteous one?  Assuredly.  Do those to whom we are
opposed merit the severest chastisement our sword can inflict on them?
Who dare doubt it?  Does GOD call on us to punish them, in His name and
as His deputies?  We all reverently believe that He does.  Is it then all
glory, all privilege, all favour—that we are thus employed?  Surely the
many disasters, the sad, sad troubles we have already encountered, the
further troubles which, without a prophet’s skill, we can see to be
awaiting us, must convince us to the contrary.  The famine-stricken
garrison allowed by Him who can save by few as well as by many, who can
give food from Heaven, or sustain without it, to yield itself to the
foully treacherous foe—the pestilence-stricken band of noble, righteous
warriors checked in their good career—are these proofs of GOD’S unmingled
approbation?  Would He without a purpose ever have allowed such
contending elements as Hindooism and Mohammedanism to combine against us?
Would He who restrained this ripe rebellion when our forces were
elsewhere doing His work, have given a loose to it now, had He deemed us
worthy of His constantly protective power?  Would not He, who in some
cases has caused a mere handful of men to put to flight a host, a woman
to keep at bay a score of infuriated agents of Satan—would not He have
led us in all cases to easy triumph—have crowned us long since with
complete bloodless victory and trampled all those that hate us under our
uninjured feet—had we not deserved the rod of chastisement?  By His
occasional intervention on our behalf, He has vindicated the general
righteousness of our cause, and manifested His power to help us when He
will.  Would not that aid, then, have been more frequent, would it not
have been constant, had we so deserved to conquer?  Recollect (it cannot
be too strongly or too frequently impressed upon you) GOD is free from
all caprice; He does not afflict without a cause.  He may and does spare
when we deserve punishment; He cannot afflict without provocation.

In thus tracing effects to their causes, I am not pointing at the
calamities which have befallen individuals, further than as illustrations
of the general judgment.  They were not sinners above the rest of men,
upon whom the tower in Siloam fell.  The wicked man often lives on in
outward prosperity and comes in no misfortune like other folk; while the
righteous is afflicted and goes mourning all his days, or is cut off in
the midst of them.  Inoffensive women, innocent children, godly servants
of the Cross have endured unspeakable agonies, and gone dishonoured
before men to the grave; while unbelievers, and blasphemers, and
licentious, have, perchance, escaped unhurt, unassailed.  No matter: a
_future_ state will set that right—Lazarus is comforted—Dives has as yet
his good things; but if he haste not to repent, he will ere long be
tormented.  But, as before urged, there is no future state for nations.
Their visitations therefore are always judicial; and when, as in our
present case, they are full of calamity, it is clearly manifest that they
are the fruit of sin.

And cannot any reflecting mind, informed of our manner of rule in India,
discern the nature and point to the instances of our provoking sin?  A
wonderful Providence has made us, on most easy terms, possessors of a
territory abounding in all kinds of riches: we have brought home thence
great stores of treasure: we have found there lucrative and desirable
employment for our children, who in their turn have been enabled to make
ample provision for their families, and we have reaped there many other
advantages.  With the soil, we have acquired dominion over some two
hundred millions of human beings, possessed like ourselves of immortal
souls, and destined to inherit an eternal state of bliss or woe,
according as they shall have pleased or displeased GOD in the flesh.  We
found these natives sunk in various forms of the most degrading
superstition, gratifying (as they thought _religiously_) the most
grovelling lusts, and practising the most inhuman rites.  At the time
when our chartered merchants took possession of the ground they had
purchased for warehouse room, the full glare of the Gospel-light shone
upon us.  The semi-darkness of Popery had been dispelled.  It was the
triumph-day of the Reformation.

Now, it is a first principle of the Gospel (which we had then no excuse
for not understanding), that none of us lives for himself; that a candle
is not lighted to be hid under a bushel; that what we have received,
Christian love and Christian duty require us to impart.  Yet we traded
with these benighted people, and lived among them, without allowing them
to see the faintest glimmer of the true light.  By and by, we became
their masters, or rather stewards over them for God.  We knew the
religious responsibilities which rest upon the rulers of a household, we
could not plead ignorance of the duties of stewards; still, not only did
we refrain from discharging these duties by instructing and regulating
those of whom we had the charge, but we actually ignored in their sight
our own recognition of God, and our own personal responsibility to a
Divine Master.  So that they not unnaturally judged that we were
infidels, acknowledging no religious faith at all.  It was a common
remark made on all sides, “When an Englishman goes to India, he leaves
his religion at the Cape”—because no sign of its having accompanied him
was ever witnessed.

And this, be it observed, was not because the servants wantonly
disregarded their employers’ injunctions.  It is recorded in history
against the East India Company (and I need not tell you that the
responsibility does not rest wholly on them), that they never sought to
make converts to Christianity, but only to get money in India.  Nor, my
brethren, is this a crime, a dereliction of most solemn duty chargeable
on past ages only.  To this day and hour, no effort has been made by
authority to persuade the natives to become Christians.  Nay, worse; no
clear exhibition of Christianity has been made to them.  There are, it is
true, three bishoprics in the country, erected (and supported) by
voluntary societies, when the tardy permission was given.  There are also
Company’s chaplains at the various military stations, and there are some
few missionaries.  But the whole number at the beginning of the present
outbreak was only in the proportion of one clergyman to some eight or
nine hundred thousand natives.  I know that some persons would object,
that even this little show of Christianity has been injurious to our
tenure of the country; that it has roused the suspicions of the jealous
infidels, lest they should be coerced into an acceptance of our
religion—that, in fact, it has caused the present outbreak.  My brethren,
this statement is scarcely worthy of a refutation.  If it were, I could
furnish it in the larger attendance of native children at the Missionary
schools where the Bible is read, than at the Government schools from
which it is excluded; and in the candid testimony of unconverted Hindoos,
that their greatest suspicions of compulsory conversion was founded on
the timid, half-concealed profession of Christianity by the English.
But, my brethren, suppose it even so: suppose that an attempt to proclaim
Christianity did meet with opposition, did provoke mutiny, is not this
what it has ever had to contend against?  Should you and I be Christians
this day, if the brave missionaries who first came to our island had
desisted at the earliest menace or murmur of the Ancient Britons or
Anglo-Saxons?  O let no such vain and impious excuse be made!  We are
bound as a Christian nation to exhibit Christianity to all our subjects;
or, at any rate, to encourage the efforts of societies and individuals to
do it.  We must do it discreetly, but it must be done.  How else shall we
give account of our stewardship—that stewardship entrusted to us for the
good of our subjects?  But, my brethren, we have not even brought moral
influences to bear upon this people.  In our country every one is bound
at least to obey the common law, and so is he (as far as I know), in all
our dependencies, _save in India_.  But there (some restraints have of
late years been laid on them) infanticide, widow-burning, wholesale
polygamy, and many other equally flagrant crimes have been tolerated,
nay, deliberately sanctioned, because, forsooth, they are part of the
Mohammedan or Hindoo religion.

Do we not deserve a judgment for this?  And have we not got it, alas! _in
kind_?  We have left the Mohammedan to believe that it is heavenly to
gratify lust, that it is meritorious to kill the disbeliever in his
prophet.  We have left the Hindoo (till lately) to destroy the widow, to
murder the infant.  And has not this had its influence in the treatment
of our outraged and murdered ones—the men of peace, as well as the
warriors, the women and the helpless babes?

This is not the place, nor am I the person to discuss at length the
causes and cure of the Indian mutiny.  My aim has only been to give you
some glimpses of it in its religious light; and so to help you to see
GOD’S hand in it, that you may seek relief from Him; and, according to
your several opportunities, take counsel and use efforts to avert this
judgment, and others, of which, if neglected, this will be the sure
forerunner.  “Hear ye the rod, and Who hath appointed it.”

With such sense of our neglect of GOD’S work, and our fearful
responsibility to Him, let us draw near to the Throne of Mercy on this
Solemn Fast Day.  Let us humble ourselves as a people for the aggregate
of this sin, and as individuals, for the shares in it, which by our
deeds, our influence, our voice, our silence, we have respectively had.
Let us consider, too, that as this wound in a “member,” affects the whole
“body,” so may it have been inflicted for the sins of the whole body.
The moral corruption, the tolerated, the sanctioned, the _justified_ sins
of this land, the general disregard of GOD as the administrator of
temporal affairs, the unwilling acknowledgment, often withheld, of
responsibility to Him; the sins like in kind to those which now excite
our horror and indignation, the deceit and fraud, the atrocious murders,
the daring deeds of uncleanness, the reckless meddling with the sacred
law of marriage here at home—who shall say that this unhealthy state of
the “body” has not helped to cause the sore in the “member”?  And who
shall not acknowledge that it is of Divine Mercy that that sore has not
broken out in a more vital part?  O then, as we “hear the rod, and Who
hath appointed it,” let us not only submissively receive the
chastisement, but also humbly and thankfully adore the clemency, which
has made it so much lighter than we deserved.

But this is a day of requests as well as acknowledgments.  We have to
make our humble petitions to Almighty God; and to be acceptable
petitioners, we must offer righteous prayers—righteous, not simply in the
feeling that we merit punishment, that we do not merit mercy; but in the
resolution to provoke punishment no longer; to deserve, by appreciating
and turning to godly advantage, the supplicated mercy.  “We have done
wrong, we repent, we pledge ourselves to amend:” in this tone do we pray
for peace and the restoration of our dominion; at least if we do not, the
intelligent Christian must devoutly hope that our prayers may not be
answered.  Better, far better would it be, much as the worldly-wise will
deride the folly of the assertion, that we should lose India altogether,
than that it should be given back to us in anger; than that it should be
again a wide field, on which to display our contempt of Christianity’s
strongest obligations: we the holders of a gift, which not to hand on is
to lose, seeming not to know that we have that gift: we the soldiers of
the Cross to connive at, to sanction, and so to adopt and establish the
dominion of Satan!  O, as you pray for the success of our soldiers’ arms,
asking that they may prevail and execute justice (_not revenge_) and
restore peace, let it be with the resolution that so soon as the fitting
time arrives, your voice, and influence, and means shall do their utmost
to send out a spiritual army, to obtain a better conquest, to set up a
more glorious dominion, to secure a more lasting and effectual peace
wherein righteousness shall reign!

Meantime, let us not forget—oh, their case will bear no delay!—the
immediate sufferers under the Divine displeasure.  Too many, alas! have
already drunk the bitterest dregs of our cup of visitation.  Brutally
treated, savagely murdered, it is too late to do anything for them.  But
there are many whom danger as yet but threatens; whom fiendish lust and
cruelty are seeking to grasp and victimise; whom the sword may smite or
the pestilence lay low, or the famine starve.  What can we do for them?
I am not asking what the Government is to do for them: they know their
work, and seem fully bent on doing it: but what can we, as individual
Christians, here at home do?  What, my brethren, but pray for them?
Besiege the throne of GOD daily: intreat Him, if it is needful to smite
us yet longer with His rod, at least to bear less heavily on the innocent
and helpless, to prepare those whom He wills to take, for death and the
judgment that comes after death; to sanctify their sufferings; to comfort
those who mourn for them.

And something else remains for us to do.  There are sufferers in this sad
mutiny who have escaped with life, but nothing else.  We read of crowds
of them, helpless babes without nurse or mother; gentle, delicate women,
accustomed to all the comforts of life, huddled together in one
room—their hearts torn with the loss of those they loved—their minds
distracted with the remembrance of the atrocities they have
witnessed—perhaps experienced—their bodies enfeebled, if not diseased,
through their unspeakable hardships—without a comfort of any kind, or the
means of procuring it!  You know what to do for them.  You know the value
and power of sympathy timely shown in relieving pain, in binding up the
wounds of the heart.  In the name of the Great Sympathiser be not slow to
manifest that sympathy in all possible ways; and as a substantial proof
that you have it, lose no time in sending your contributions to the Fund
which is to relieve their most pressing wants.

I will not do you wrong by supposing that you need words of mine to urge
you to this duty.  If the knowledge of the facts which you possess did
not move you, it were vain to expect that any reasoning, any
expostulation, any entreaty would avail.  Whoso hath this world’s goods,
and seeth his brother in _such_ need, and shutteth up his compassion from
him, how dwelleth the love of GOD—or anything else excellent or human—in
him?

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

     F. Shoberl, Printer to H.R.H. Prince Albert, 51, Rupert Street,
                                Haymarket.




PUBLISHED BY
WILLIAM SKEFFINGTON, 163, PICCADILLY.


                                * * * * *

              BY JOHN JACKSON, D.D., LORD BISHOP OF LINCOLN.

THE WITNESS OF THE SPIRIT.  Sermons preached before the University of
Oxford.  Second edition, fcp. 8vo, 5s. 6d.

THE SINFULNESS OF LITTLE SINS.  Contents:—I. The Exceeding Sinfulness of
Sin.  II. Sins of the Temper.  III. Sins of Pride and Vanity.  IV. Sins
of the Thoughts.  V. Sins of the Tongue.  VI. Sins of Omission.  Ninth
edition, 3s. 6d.

REPENTANCE: ITS NECESSITY, NATURE, AND AIDS.  Contents:—I. The Necessity
of Repentance.  II. The Nature of Repentance.  III. The Properties of
true Repentance.  IV. The Aids of Penitence.  V. The Aids of Penitence
(continued).  VI. The Pardon of Penitence.  Fifth edition, fcp. 8vo, 3s.
6d.

THE SPIRIT OF THE WORLD, AND THE SPIRIT WHICH IS OF GOD.  A Sermon
addressed to the Newly-confirmed, and preparatory to the Holy Communion.
Third edition, 1s.

THE DAY OF PRAYER, AND THE DAY OF THANKSGIVING.  Two Sermons.  Second
edition, 1s.

ROME AND HER CLAIMS.  Second edition, 6d., or 5s. per dozen.

SUNDAY A DAY OF REST, OR A DAY OF WORK?  A Few Words to Working Men.
Fifth thousand, 2d., or 1s. 6d. per dozen.

WAR: ITS EVILS AND DUTIES.  A Sermon preached in the Cathedral Church of
Lincoln, April 26, 1854.  Second edition, 6d.

                                * * * * *

JOB: a Course of Lectures preached in the Parish Church of St. James’s,
Westminster, on the Fridays in Lent, A.D. 1855.  By John Edward Kempe.
M.A., Rector of St. James’s.  Fcp. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

                          _By the same Author_—

THREE SERMONS ON THE WAR, preached in the Parish Church of St. James’s,
Westminster.  Contents:—I. “Be not High-minded.”  II. The Lawfulness of
War.  III. “Humble Yourselves.”  Fcp. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

                                * * * * *

GOD’S SECOND CHASTISEMENT OF WAR, AND HOW TO AVERT IT.  A Sermon preached
on the Fourteenth Sunday after Trinity, in a Country Church.  By the Rev.
Henry Swabey, M.A., late Rector of St. Aldate’s, Oxford. 6d.

PEACE, GOD’S GIFT, AND HOW TO USE IT.  A Sermon preached in the Temple
Church, on the Second Sunday after Easter, 1856.  By Henry Hayman, B.D.,
Assistant Preacher, late Fellow of St. John’s College, Oxford.  8vo, 1s.

WAR, ITS LAWFULNESS: PEACE, ITS BLESSINGS.  A Sermon by the Rev. Jordan
Palmer, M.A., late Senior Curate of Camden Town.  Second Edition, 8vo,
1s.

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON EVIL THOUGHTS: wherein their Nature, Origin, &c.,
are considered: with Rules for their Restraint and Suppression.  By
William Chilcot, M.A.  New edition, 2s. 6d.

HYMNS FOR USE IN CHURCH.  Collected by the Rev. H. W. Burrows, B.D.,
Perpetual Curate of Christ Church, St. Pancras.  Second edition.  1s.

THE CHURCH AND THE PEOPLE.  Twelve Sermons preached at St. Luke’s,
Berwick Street.  By Henry Whitehead, M.A., Curate of St. Matthew’s,
Westminster.  Fcp. 8vo, 4s.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "HEAR YE THE ROD, AND WHO HATH
APPOINTED IT"***


******* This file should be named 64742-0.txt or 64742-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/4/7/4/64742


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

